All right, so it's time for
a dangerous aside.
We've already talked about
the built-in function constructors and
how they can be kind of neat,
but they're also dangerous.
Here's a simple example to show why
built-in function constructors for
primitive types, especially like boolean,
number, string, are dangerous.
Let's say I have a variable
a which is 3 and
a variable b which is new Number 3.
If I say a == b, that's true.
Why?
Because this coerces types.
The ==, that operator,
looks at a and sees a primitive,
looks at b and sees an object, and
tries to convert them to the same type.
And once it does, they're equal.
If I use the recommended triple equals,
a and b are not equal.
Why?
Because a is a primitive and
b is an Object,
created with this function constructor.
And the === function, that operator,
if it sees that the two things are not
equal it immediately returns false.
Doesn't even try, doesn't even bother.
It just says, nope, they're not the same
type, there's no way they can be equal.
Because in reality,
these two things aren't equal.
So do you see the danger there?
By using built-in
function constructors for
creating primitives,
you aren't really creating primitives.
And strange things can happen during
comparison with operators and coercion.
It's better, in general, to not use
the built-in function constructors.
Use literals.
Use the actual primitive values.
And in cases where you
absolutely have to use them,
understand what you're doing to yourself.
Understand that any kind of comparison
needs to be against the same type.
One other thing I want to note,
what if you're dealing with
dates that we already saw?
Or we use the date built-in
function constructor.
There's an absolutely terrific
library called Moment.js.
You can go to moment.js.com.
And it wraps up a whole
lot of functionality for
dealing with, formatting and
doing math on dates.
If you're going to do a lot of date work,
I recommend you use this library,
instead of a lot of work with
built-in JavaScript date constructor.
This helps out with some problems
within that built-in constructor.
So, just know about Moment.js.
Momentjs.com, that's very useful.
And again, we just want to be
certain we have this clear.
It's dangerous to use
function constructors,
the built-in ones, for primitives.
I can try to use them for
conversion sometimes,
I might say c = Number and
then pass in a string 3.
This time I'm just using it as a regular
old function, not as the new keyword.
And when I do that c is
the converted value.
So that can be useful under
certain circumstances.
But understand again the difference there
between using the new keyword and not.
You're calling the function.
In this you're creating an object, calling
the function and getting an object back.
So that's just something
to note about these things.
Some new JavaScript developers use this
all over the place, use these built-in
function constructors, without realizing
they're creating objects, not primitives.
So be aware, and let's move on.